then you probably know that every
interview is covered in bacteria and a
good throne of the right microbes is
essential for our well-being indeed you
can't live without them it's only the
wrong kinds of bacteria start to
proliferate that you get problems but
what about beards are we surrounding our
mouths with giant microbial mats and if
so could it be doing us harm okay it's
not me this furry face doppelganger is
my identical twin brother Zond
I've always been slightly suspicious of
him and his bearded ilk his face Matt
may Harbor all kinds of strange bacteria
but the fact is we don't actually know
and being a doctor of infectious
diseases I for one want to get to the
truth so I'm gonna have a fertile in
some of the furry faces of Camden using
one of these this is a bacterial swab
and then we're going to grow out the
bacteria on this a petri dish covered in
agar jelly let's find some beards
I'd like to find out whether there are
more bacteria on beards than on naked
skin excuse me sir
Rudy mind if I uh swap your beers what
we'll find is a bit of a mystery
research so far has been contradictory a
study from 2000 so that bearded faces
shed considerably more bacteria than
naked skin but a 2014 survey befriended
the bid showing that they contained less
Staphylococcus aureus
that's the bacterium that puts the s a
into Mrs a the hospital super bug so our
beards unhygenic or not it's four weeks
since I took my swabs and here at
University College London
they've been incubated and analyzed for
bacteria by dr. Adam Roberts
he studied bacteria from the planets
poles to the bottom of the sea but bids
are a new habitat even to him what did
you find on the bids a lot of different
bacteria actually I mean these were
disgusting there's many different
bacteria on there we've got over a
hundred species although there's a
couple of molds normally expect molds no
on skin there are many different reasons
to be honest why there could be molds in
a beard we didn't go into it right most
of them don't bear think that's
it may sound disgusting but of the
bacteria that Adam identified almost all
can be found on naked skin and while we
did find one common to our small
intestine it doesn't mean it came from
poo as the headline suggested for those
of us that are involved with beards we
either have beards or we kiss beards are
with involved in the bed community
should we be worried are there health
and safety concerns with bids that you
have identified no I don't think so so
if we don't have to be anxious about
that there's nothing we found which is
alarming nothing alarming and in fact
Adam has seen something potentially
exciting in our samples when you get a
competitive environment like a beard
where there are many different bacteria
they fight for food resources and space
so they produce things like antibiotics
and you can see here you've got halos
that's what we're looking for the clear
halo is a ring of death created by
antibiotic chemicals secreted by the
bacteria in the middle killing
everything around them it's the same
thing that Alexander Fleming first
noticed when he discovered penicillin so
that's a colony of a bedbug and around
it it's killed the other bacteria that's
right this is hugely exciting
potentially an antibiotic yes and
potentially we could use it in medicine
Adam still has a lot of research to do
before we'll find out whether trust me
I'm a doctor has discovered the next
penicillin but it seems that there are
no more nasties lurking in beds than on
naked skin
you